some notes:
- sketch will behave like gen 3. it will copy a move for the duration of the battle, but not after that. So, slightly better than mimic. ditto could learn an extra move like this. by transforming into smeargle.
- any pokemon with sleeptalk/mirrormove/mimic/transform/metronome could learn any move for the remainder of the battle if they use sketch.
- moves that trigger another move cannot trigger a triggering move (metronome, sleep talk, mirror move cannot trigger each other)

might have to introduce gender to picodex, to make attract work.
- attract bypasses substitute

chansey -> female
hitmons -> male
nidos -> m/f
kanga -> f
jynx -> f
taur -> m
miltank -> f

these cannot breed: (unrelated)
  legendaries: ARTICUNO ZAPDOS MOLTRES MEWTWO MEW UNOWN RAIKOU ENTEI SUICUNE LUGIA HO-OH CELEBI
  babies: PICHU CLEFFA IGGLYBUFF SMOOCHUM ELEKID MAGBY


these pokemon are "genderless". Attract won't work on them:
  Magnemite Magneton Voltorb Electrode Staryu Starmie Ditto Porygon Articuno Zapdos Moltres Mewtwo Mew Unown Porygon2 Raikou Entei Suicune Lugia Ho-Oh Celebi

unless the pokemon using attract is also genderless. (mew for example.)

I will use PS2 mechanics, which are here: https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Pok%C3%A9mon_Stadium_2

Teleport goes last. useful if you want abra to take the damage. And can escape some moves you can't normally escape. And against pursuit.

Move priority.
+4	Pursuit (on a switch)
+3	Switching
+2	Detect, Endure, Protect
+1	ExtremeSpeed, Mach Punch, Quick Attack
 0	All moves not listed
-1	Teleport, Counter, Mirror Coat, Roar, Vital Throw, Whirlwind

Modifications inspired by other games:
DIFF: Gen 1 games. Haze works similarly to how it worked in Gen 1. All effects and stat modifiers that can be Baton Passed can also be reset with haze. Ultimate counter to baton pass.
DIFF: Gen 1 games. Substitute works similarly to Gen 1. Only protects from damage done by opponent. Not against any effects.
DIFF: Gen 2 games. Metal powder increases defense and special defense by 50% for ditto even when transformed.
DIFF: Gen 2 games. Recoil, Self-KO, Freeze, and Sleep clauses are all removed.
DIFF: Gen 1 games. Swift/Faint Attack/Vital Throw will never miss, bypassing all accuracy checks including when opponent uses dig/fly.
DIFF: Protect and Detect protect against Mean Look and Substitute. (Didn't in the original games.)
DIFF: Flail and Reversal can now cause a critical hit and are varied by the random damage factor.
DIFF: Protect and Detect work behind a substitute.
DIFF: Transform fails when opponent is transformed or user is already transformed.
DIFF: Lock-On/MindReader sets a status on the user, not the target. So it can be baton passed and work even if the target switches out. Earthquake/Magnitude/Fissure will still hit a non-flying Pokemon in the middle of Fly.
DIFF: The freeze status condition has a 20% chance to unthaw the Pokemon each turn.
DIFF: Teleport switches the user's Pokemon with another random Pokemon.
DIFF: Transform copies oppenent's gender, species, stats, and moves. Transform does not copy existing stat modifiers.
DIFF: Detect, Protect and Endure all work behind a substitute.
DIFF: Curse is a ghost type move.
DIFF: Being transformed gets the benefit of special items like light ball and thick club.
DIFF: Dynamicpunch always confuses the target if it hits.
DIFF: The Polkadot Bow item is excluded in favor of Pink Bow.

Modifications inspired by design:
DIFF: All Pokemon are set to level 50 with the highest possible stats they can have for that level.
DIFF: When you KO the target with a multihit move such as "Double Slap", your attack will continue onto the next Pokemon sent out.
DIFF: If a Pokemon faints, the next Pokemon in the user's team is sent out automatically. This places more importance on team order.
DIFF: Confusion will be passed with baton pass.
DIFF: A genderless Pokemon that uses Attract will infatuate the foe if the foe is also genderless.
DIFF: Rest will not reset the Toxic counter.
DIFF: Focus band has a chance to activate as long as the Pokemon has >1 HP for anything that does damage. This includes self KO moves, confusion, leech seed, Perish Song, Destiny Bond, etc...
DIFF: Endure protects from all damage for the remainder of the entire turn. Including Perish Song, Future Sight, Pain Split, Spite, Poison, Burn, Sandstorm, Leech Seed...
DIFF: Pain Split hits opponent past substitute.
DIFF: Mean Look and Trapping Moves prevent manual switching. They do not prevent Beat Up, Teleport, or Baton Pass.
DIFF: Self-KO moves, Perish Song, and Destiny Bond all KO the user before the opponent, which means a self-KO will lose the match, unless Endure or Focus Band is activated! Recoil moves will do damage to the user after the attack.
DIFF: Attract's effect passes to the next Pokemon with Baton Pass.
DIFF: The detect/protect/endure counter is Baton Passed.
DIFF: Defense Curl powerup for rollout is Baton Passed.
DIFF: Rage counter is Baton Passed. Rage counter does not reset when rage is not used anymore.
DIFF: Kings Rock has a chance to activate with any attack that does damage at the time of using the attack. It can still be triggered with attacking moves that already has a flinch chance if that flinch chance failed. All multistrike moves only have the chance on the last hit.
DIFF: Baton Pass doesn't allow selecting a Pokemon. Instead, the next available Pokemon in the order of the user's party is selected.
DIFF: Hidden Power has a base power of 60 and changes type to be a random super effective move for one of the opposing Pokemon's 2 types. Defaults to bird type if the chosen type has no super effective weakness.
DIFF: Morning Sun, Moonlight, & Synthesis normally restore 1/2 HP. They restore 3/4 during Sunny Day and 1/4 during rain/sandstorm.
DIFF: Mirror Coat will still activate if the foe used Beatup. It didn't do this in Gen 2.
DIFF: Damage calculation is capped at 999 damage.
DIFF: Amulet Coin doubles base power of Pay Day. (Makes it similar to Drill Peck.)
DIFF: Whirlwind will get rid of spikes from the opponent's side of the field. Roar will not. But whirlwind works against fly.
DIFF: A Pokemon entering from Baton Pass, Teleport, and Roar will take spike damage.
DIFF: Frustration has 100 Base Power if hp <= foe hp. Otherwise has 50 Base Power.
DIFF: Return has 100 Base Power if hp >= foe hp. Otherwise has 50 Base Power.
DIFF: Swagger still confuses the foe if attack at the max stage.
DIFF: Mimic and Sketch both have 10 pp. The copied move will use the same pp counter as mimic/sketch or whatever move called it.
DIFF: Trigger moves (Mirror Move, Metronome, Sleep Talk) fail when triggering another trigger move. And they cannot trigger Struggle.
DIFF: Mimic & Sketch can copy any move in the game besides struggle.
DIFF: Transform fails if Pokemon is already transformed.
DIFF: Nightmare doesn't go away when awake and will re-apply if the Pokemon falls asleep again.
DIFF: Porygon does not learn the move Conversion 2. (due to the way i pack all moves and to make it so each move is represented when battling)
DIFF: Leftovers doesn't get triggered when pokemon is switched in.
DIFF: Berserk Gene boosts both Special Attack and Attack by 2 stages. Confusion is only regular confusion when activated, not for 256 turns.
DIFF: Struggle's recoil is 1/4 of the users max hp rounded up. Was 1/4 of damage dealt in gen 2. This ensures infinite battles with leftovers are not possible.
DIFF: Encore works against sketch/transform/mirrormove/mimic. It just looks at the last moveslot used. Encore fails when the Pokemon never used a move, is using struggle, or is disabled or encored already.
DIFF: Disable fails if the Pokemon is currently encored or disabled.
DIFF: A transformed pokemon can make use of pokemon specific items (thickclub, lightball, lucky punch, stick)
DIFF: Missingno is a pokemon. It copies best stats and all moves from RB missingno, Y missingno, M (Missingno's Sister), O (M's pre-evolution), and "Pゥ_4$" (M's other preevolution). Glitch moves are converted to the gen 2 hex equivalents, except TM05 (from "Pゥ_4$") which is a move in Picodex. Only moves that can be learned up to lvl 100 are included.
DIFF: Megadrain, gigadrain, absorb, leech life all hit and take hp from a substitute.
DIFF: A Pokemon may have zero moves. The Pokemon will use struggle if that is the case.

STRAT: Sketch and Mimic allow for the same move to be available in multiple move slots.
STRAT: Missingno is broken.
STRAT: Hidden Power counters Conversion 2.

IDEA: Unlock moves as you defeat trainers.
IDEA: disable stores as a turn countdown on the pokemon flags. also disable is on different moves.
IDEA: a prep move will set a disable countdown and disable all moves besides the prep move.


DIFF: future sight is implemented leader first when getting damage
DIFF: crit formula is slightly simplified to be 1/16, 2/16, 4/16, 6/16, 8/16. The biggest diff is making the "+3" stage slightly more likely to crit.
DIFF: no complex fissure accuracy formula because all pokemon are same level, so 30% accuracy. ( https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Fissure_(move) )
DIFF: metronome & sleep talk have a chance to break through frozen or sleep status conditions.
DIFF: steel claw, steel wing, ancient power will still have the secondary effect if the opponent is KO-ed.

https://www.smogon.com/forums/threads/mechanical-differences-between-the-gens.3474872/
Changes from ADV to GSC
- IVs range from 0-15 rather than 0-31.
- A Pokemon can have 255 EVs in every stat.
- Natures and Abilities do not exist.
- If a badly poisoned Pokemon is switched out, it will be afflicted with regular poisoning.
- If a burned or poisoned Pokemon KOes its opponent, it will not take burn or poison damage that turn.
- A frozen Pokemon cannot attack on the turn it thaws out.
- If Sleep Talk chooses Rest, the Pokemon will regain all of its health and have its sleep counter reset. If Sleep Talk chooses Roar or Whirlwind and the user is faster than the opponent, it will fail. Sleep Talk always advances the sleep counter.
- Phazing moves, Counter, and Vital Throw must go second in order to succeed.
- Only one layer of Spikes can be set.

Changes from GSC to RBY
- Rather than Special Attack and Special Defense stats, Pokemon simply have a Special stat that functions as both.
- Items do not exist.
- Sleep lasts for 0 to 6 turns. Also, a Pokemon cannot attack on the turn it wakes up. A Pokemon using Rest will wake up after 2 turns rather than 3.
- If a Pokemon uses Rest while burned or paralyzed, it will retain the respective Attack or Speed drop until switching out. If a Pokemon uses an Attack or Speed boosting move while burned or paralyzed, respectively, the drops will be removed and the stat will raise as if no status was inflicted.
- The probability of critical hits is determined by base Speed. The formula used is %CH = Base Speed x 100/512. Critical hits ignore all stat changes for both Pokemon, as well as the effects of Light Screen and Reflect. They also double the Level of user during damage calculations, meaning they deal around 1.95x damage at Level 100, but closer 1.5x at Level 5.
- Bug is super effective against Poison and has normal effectiveness against Ghost, Poison is super effective against Bug, Ghost has no effect against Psychic, and Ice has normal effectiveness against Fire.
- If a Pokemon KOes an opposing Pokemon or breaks a Substitute with Hyper Beam, it does not have to recharge the next turn.
- A frozen Pokemon will not randomly thaw out.
- The accuracy and critical hit rate of all moves is reduced by 0.4% (except Swift, which will never miss).
- A poisoned or burned Pokemon loses 1/16 of its health rather than 1/8. Similarly, Leech Seed drains 1/16 of health rather than 1/8.
- A Pokemon hit by a partial trapping move cannot attack for the duration of the attack. However, it can switch out of the partial trapping move.
- Steel and Dark do not exist as types.
- Night Shade and Seismic Toss hit everything, regardless of type.
- If Explosion or SelfDestruct is used against a Pokemon behind a Substitute and breaks the Substitute, the user will not faint.
- Roar and Whirlwind have no effect.
- Haze removes major status conditions from the opponent.
- Pokemon are immune to secondary status effects from attacks of their type. So, Normal-type can't be paralyzed by Body Slam, Ice-types can't be frozen, etc.
- Counter misses if the last selected move's Base Power is 0, if the last move used by the opponent is not Normal- or Fighting-type (or is Counter), or if the last move used in battle (by either player) did no damage. Damage dealt is based on this move's damage, even if it was the Counter user who used it.
