abra       - Using its ability to read minds, it will identify impending danger and TELEPORT to safety.
aerodactyl - A ferocious, prehistoric POKeMON that goes for the enemy’s throat with its serrated saw-like fangs.
alakazam   - Its brain can outperform a supercomputer. Its intelligence quotient is said to be 5,000.
arbok      - It is rumored that the ferocious warning markings on its belly differ from area to area.
arcanine   - A POKeMON that has been admired since the past for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.
articuno   - A legendary bird POKeMON that is said to appear to doomed people who are lost in icy mountains.
beedrill   - Flies at high speed and attacks using its large venomous stingers on its forelegs and tail.
bellsprout - A carnivorous POKeMON that traps and eats bugs. It uses its root feet to soak up needed moisture.
blastoise  - A brutal POKeMON with pressurized water jets on its shell. They are used for high speed tackles.
bulbasaur  - A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this POKeMON.
butterfree - In battle, it flaps its wings at high speed to release highly toxic dust into the air.
caterpie   - Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls.
chansey    - A rare and elusive POKeMON that is said to bring happiness to those who manage to get it.
charizard  - Spits fire that is hot enough to melt boulders. Known to cause forest fires unintentionally.
charmander - Obviously prefers hot places. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail.
charmeleon - When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the temperature to unbearably high levels.
clefable   - A timid fairy POKeMON that is rarely seen. It will run and hide the moment it senses people.
clefairy   - Its magical and cute appeal has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas.
cloyster   - When attacked, it launches its horns in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen.
cubone     - Because it never removes its skull helmet, no one has ever seen this POKeMON’s real face.
dewgong    - Stores thermal energy in its body. Swims at a steady 8 knots even in intensely cold waters.
diglett    - Lives about one yard underground where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears above ground.
ditto      - Capable of copying an enemy’s genetic code to instantly transform itself into a duplicate of the enemy.
dodrio     - Uses its three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head stays awake.
doduo      - A bird that makes up for its poor flying with its fast foot speed. Leaves giant footprints.
dragonair  - A mystical POKeMON that exudes a gentle aura. Has the ability to change climate conditions.
dragonite  - An extremely rarely seen marine POKeMON. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans.
dratini    - Long considered a mythical POKeMON until recently when a small colony was found living underwater.
drowzee    - Puts enemies to sleep then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating bad dreams.
dugtrio    - A team of DIGLETT triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground.
eevee      - Its genetic code is irregular. It may mutate if it is exposed to radiation from element STONEs.
ekans      - Moves silently and stealthily. Eats the eggs of birds, such as PIDGEY and SPEAROW, whole.
electabuzz - Normally found near power plants, they can wander away and cause major blackouts in cities.
electrode  - It stores electric energy under very high pressure. It often explodes with little or no provocation.
exeggcute  - Often mistaken for eggs. When disturbed, they quickly gather and attack in swarms.
exeggutor  - Legend has it that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an EXEGGCUTE.
farfetchd  - The sprig of green onions it holds is its weapon. It is used much like a metal sword.
fearow     - With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest.
flareon    - When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature could soar to over 1600 degrees.
gastly     - Almost invisible, this gaseous POKeMON cloaks the target and puts it to sleep without notice.
gengar     - A GENGAR is close by if you feel a sudden chill. It may be trying to lay a curse on you.
geodude    - Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them.
gloom      - The fluid that oozes from its mouth isn’t drool. It is a nectar that is used to attract prey.
golbat     - Once it strikes, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly.
goldeen    - Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of the Water Queen.
golduck    - Often seen swimming elegantly by lake shores. It is often mistaken for the Japanese monster, Kappa.
golem      - Its boulder-like body is extremely hard. It can easily withstand dynamite blasts without damage.
graveler   - Rolls down slopes to move. It rolls over any obstacle without slowing or changing its direction.
grimer     - Appears in filthy areas. Thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories.
growlithe  - Very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space.
gyarados   - Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage.
haunter    - Because of its ability to slip through block walls, it is said to be from another dimension.
hitmonchan - While apparently doing nothing, it fires punches in lightning fast volleys that are impossible to see.
hitmonlee  - When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra long, loping strides.
horsea     - Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water.
hypno      - When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of PSI moves such as HYPNOSIS and CONFUSION.
ivysaur    - When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs.
jigglypuff - When its huge eyes light up, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep.
jolteon    - It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10000-volt lightning bolts.
jynx       - It seductively wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it.
kabuto     - A POKeMON that was resurrected from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor eons ago.
kabutops   - Its sleek shape is perfect for swimming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains the body fluids.
kadabra    - It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close by.
kakuna     - Almost incapable of moving, this POKeMON can only harden its shell to protect itself from predators.
kangaskhan - The infant rarely ventures out of its mother’s protective pouch until it is 3 years old.
kingler    - The large pincer has 10000 hp of crushing power. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use.
koffing    - Because it stores several kinds of toxic gases in its body, it is prone to exploding without warning.
krabby     - Its pincers are not only powerful weapons, they are used for balance when walking sideways.
lapras     - A POKeMON that has been overhunted almost to extinction. It can ferry people across the water.
lickitung  - Its tongue can be extended like a chameleon’s. It leaves a tingling sensation when it licks enemies.
machamp    - Using its heavy muscles, it throws powerful punches that can send the victim clear over the horizon.
machoke    - Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power save belt to be able to regulate its motions.
machop     - Loves to build its muscles. It trains in all styles of martial arts to become even stronger.
magikarp   - In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today.
magmar     - Its body always burns with an orange glow that enables it to hide perfectly among flames.
magnemite  - Uses anti-gravity to stay suspended. Appears without warning and uses THUNDER WAVE and similar moves.
magneton   - Formed by several MAGNEMITEs linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up.
mankey     - Extremely quick to anger. It could be docile one moment then thrashing away the next instant.
marowak    - The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets.
meowth     - Adores circular objects. Wanders the streets on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change.
metapod    - This POKeMON is vulnerable to attack while its shell is soft, exposing its weak and tender body.
mew        - So rare that it is still said to be a mirage by many experts. Only a few people have seen it worldwide.
mewtwo     - It was created by a scientist after years of horrific gene splicing and DNA engineering experiments.
moltres    - Known as the legendary bird of fire. Every flap of its wings creates a dazzling flash of flames.
mr mime    - If interrupted while it is miming, it will slap around the offender with its broad hands.
muk        - Thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison.
nidoking   - It uses its powerful tail in battle to smash, constrict, then break the prey’s bones.
nidoqueen  - Its hard scales provide strong protection. It uses its hefty bulk to execute powerful moves.
nidoran-f  - Although small, its venomous barbs render this POKéMON dangerous. The female has smaller horns.
nidoran-m  - Stiffens its ears to sense danger. The larger its horns, the more powerful its secreted venom
nidorina   - The female’s horn develops slowly. Prefers physical attacks such as clawing and biting.
nidorino   - An aggressive POKeMON that is quick to attack. The horn on its head secretes a powerful venom.
ninetales  - Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1000-year curse.
oddish     - During the day, it keeps its face buried in the ground. At night, it wanders around sowing its seeds.
omanyte    - Although long extinct, in rare cases, it can be genetically resurrected from fossils.
omastar    - A prehistoric POKeMON that died out when its heavy shell made it impossible to catch prey.
onix       - As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to a diamond, but colored black.
paras      - Burrows to suck tree roots. The mushrooms on its back grow by drawing nutrients from the bug host.
parasect   - A host-parasite pair in which the parasite mushroom has taken over the host bug. Prefers damp places.
persian    - Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness.
pidgeot    - When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as MAGIKARP.
pidgeotto  - Very protective of its sprawling territorial area, this POKeMON will fiercely peck at any intruder.
pidgey     - A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand.
pikachu    - When several of these POKeMON gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms.
pinsir     - If it fails to crush the victim in its pincers, it will swing it around and toss it hard.
poliwag    - Its newly grown legs prevent it from running. It appears to prefer swimming than trying to stand.
poliwhirl  - Capable of living in or out of water. When out of water, it sweats to keep its body slimy.
poliwrath  - An adept swimmer at both the front crawl and breast stroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers.
ponyta     - Its hooves are 10 times harder than diamonds. It can trample anything completely flat in little time.
porygon    - A POKeMON that consists entirely of programming code. Capable of moving freely in cyberspace.
primeape   - Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it is caught.
psyduck    - While lulling its enemies with its vacant look, this wily POKeMON will use psychokinetic powers.
raichu     - Its long tail serves as a ground to protect itself from its own high voltage power.
rapidash   - Very competitive, this POKeMON will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it.
raticate   - It uses its whiskers to maintain its balance. It apparently slows down if they are cut off.
rattata    - Bites anything when it attacks. Small and very quick, it is a common sight in many places.
rhydon     - Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees.
rhyhorn    - Its massive bones are 1000 times harder than human bones. It can easily knock a trailer flying.
sandshrew  - Burrows deep underground in arid locations far from water. It only emerges to hunt for food.
sandslash  - Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape.
scyther    - With ninja-like agility and speed, it can create the illusion that there is more than one.
seadra     - Capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its wing-like pectoral fins and stout tail.
seaking    - In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks.
seel       - The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick ice.
shellder   - Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open.
slowbro    - The SHELLDER that is latched onto SLOWPOKE’s tail is said to feed on the host’s left over scraps.
slowpoke   - Incredibly slow and dopey. It takes 5 seconds for it to feel pain when under attack.
snorlax    - Very lazy. Just eats and sleeps. As its rotund bulk builds, it becomes steadily more slothful.
spearow    - Eats bugs in grassy areas. It has to flap its short wings at high speed to stay airborne.
squirtle   - After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. Powerfully sprays foam from its mouth.
starmie    - Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem.
staryu     - An enigmatic POKeMON that can effortlessly regenerate any appendage it loses in battle.
tangela    - The whole body is swathed with wide vines that are similar to seaweed. Its vines shake as it walks.
tauros     - When it targets an enemy, it charges furiously while whipping its body with its long tails.
tentacool  - Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by its stinging acid.
tentacruel - The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey.
vaporeon   - Lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin which is often mistaken for a mermaid’s.
venomoth   - The dust-like scales covering its wings are color coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has.
venonat    - Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats insects. It is attracted by light at night.
venusaur   - The plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight.
victreebel - Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there.
vileplume  - The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up.
voltorb    - Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a POKe BALL, they have zapped many people.
vulpix     - At the time of birth, it has just one tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older.
wartortle  - Often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For swimming fast, it moves its ears to maintain balance.
weedle     - Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp venomous stinger on its head.
weepinbell - It spits out POISONPOWDER to immobilize the enemy and then finishes it with a spray of ACID.
weezing    - Where two kinds of poison gases meet, 2 KOFFINGs can fuse into a WEEZING over many years.
wigglytuff - The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size.
zapdos     - A legendary bird POKeMON that is said to appear from clouds while dropping enormous lightning bolts.
zubat      - Forms colonies in perpetually dark places. Uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets.
